docs: tutorial for managing schemas with Schema Registry (#2331)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/tutorials/kafka/managing-schemas-using-schema-registry.md

---
title: Managing schemas using Schema Registry
description: A tutorial teaching how to manage schemas using Schema Registry.

> weight: 50

Reviewer: ```suggestion
weight: 250
```

## Background context
The need for schema management has become increasingly prevalent to handle the evolving complexity of modern Event-Driven Architecture. A Schema Registry is a centralized service that stores and maintains schemas for data exchanged between various components of a modern distributed system. Validating exchanged data maintains data consistency and compatibility. 

While several Schema Registry implementations exist, you will use the [Apicurio Registry](https://www.apicur.io/registry/) for this tutorial. Apicurio Registry is a popular open-source Schema Registry implementation that supports multiple serialization formats and facilitates schema management for diverse data in distributed systems. You will use Apicurio Registry combined with Avro, a language-neutral data serialization system.

## Prerequisites
[Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) from the official website.

### Start Apicurio Registry
Start the Apicurio Registry locally with the following docker command:
   
```

> {`docker run --env CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=* -it -p 8080:8080 apicurio/apicurio-registry-mem:2.5.8.Final`}

Reviewer 2: Can you check it again?

```
➜  ~ docker run --env CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=* -it -p 8080:8080 apicurio/apicurio-registry-mem:2.5.8.Final
zsh: no matches found: CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=*
```

Maybe problem only on my side, but looks like value must be escaped with `'`

```
➜  ~ docker run --env CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS='*' -it -p 8080:8080 apicurio/apicurio-registry-mem:2.5.8.Final
Starting the Java application using /opt/jboss/container/java/run/run-java.sh ...
INFO exec -a "java" java -Dquarkus.http.host=0.0.0.0 -Djava.util.logging.manager=org.jboss.logmanager.LogManager -cp "." -jar /deployments/apicurio-registry-app-2.5.8.Final-runner.jar
INFO running in /deployments
__  ____  __  _____   ___  __ ____  ______
 --/ __ \/ / / / _ | / _ \/ //_/ / / / __/
 -/ /_/ / /_/ / __ |/ , _/ ,< / /_/ /\ \
--\___\_\____/_/ |_/_/|_/_/|_|\____/___/
```

Reviewer 2: nit: I don't now how command will be rendered on our site, that's why I can't understand why here are `{` with `'` around command

Reviewer: @Arya-Gupta feedback to check out ⬆️

Author: Lukasz sent me this, I'm not totally sure about which version is correct. I'm going to take help from another contributor and try running both versions of the command.

Reviewer 2: > Lukasz sent me this, I'm not totally sure about which version is correct. I'm going to take help from another contributor and try running both versions of the command.

You can use command, where I wrapped *. Now works correct

Author: @Pakisan I've modified it!

```

### Upload Avro Schema
Once your local instance of Apicurio Registry is running, upload your Avro schema. Open a new terminal window and create an Avro schema artifact with the following command:
   
```
curl \
http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts \
-X POST  \
-H "Content-Type: application/json; artifactType=AVRO" \
-H "X-Registry-ArtifactId: UserSignedUp" \
--data @- << EOF
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "UserSignedUp",
  "namespace": "com.company",
  "doc": "User sign-up information",
  "fields": [
    {
      "name": "userId",
      "type": "int"
    },
    {
      "name": "userEmail",
      "type": "string"
    }
  ]
}
EOF
```

<Remember>
Download your Avro schema by visiting the following URL: 
http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp.
</Remember>

> ### Replace link using JSON pointer

Reviewer 3: it is not json pointer and it is not about replacing link

```suggestion
### Update schema reference
```

We miss a flow in this tutorial

Kafka tutorials were suppose to be "one after another flow" always next mentions, is related to previous one, like extending it

So in this tutorial we should mention Kafka Avro tutorial at the beginning and not here inside this section. Like it is done in other tutorials.

1. first say that "yo, in previous tutorial you added avro schema to your asyncapi document and now you will put this schema in central registry of schemas and reuse it from there"
2. next show the part that you modify, like in Kafka Avro tutorial, first show part from previous tutorial, how it looked before so you show which part you improve - and then you improve it

It is important we are consistent across tutorials

Reviewer: @Arya-Gupta ⬆️ 

FYI, the **Introduction** should be where you explain what was done in the previous Avro schema tutorial. 

> 1. first say that "yo, in previous tutorial you added avro schema to your asyncapi document and now you will put this schema in central registry of schemas and reuse it from there"

Author: @alequetzalli How does this sound as part of the  `Introduction`:
"In the previous tutorial, you've learned how to add avro schemas to your AsyncAPI document. Now, you will learn how to save your schema in a central Schema Registry and reuse it from there."

Author: @derberg I can have a heading called `AsyncAPI document with Avro Schema` right before the first step of the tutorial. 

The previous tutorial taught you how to write an AsyncAPI document for Kafka messages using the Avro Schema. Here's an example of what an AsyncAPI document fully equipped with Avro Schema looks like:

```
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: User Signup API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: The API notifies you whenever a new user signs up in the application.
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          type: record
          name: UserSignedUp
          namespace: com.company
          doc: User sign-up information
          fields:
            - name: userId
              type: int
            - name: userEmail
              type: string
```

Reviewer: yes, you need to mention previous tutorial in the introduction.. please do so before requesting another review :P

---
title: Managing schemas using Schema Registry

> description: The guide explains how you can manage schemas using Schema Registry.

Reviewer: This is not a guide, this is **tutorial**. Please fix the description meta data accordingly.

Author: fixed

> description: The tutorial explains how you can manage schemas using Schema Registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A tutorial teaching how to manage schemas using Schema Registry.
```

weight: 50
---

## Introduction

> You will learn how to manage schemas with Schema Registry. Managing schemas will enable us to ensure a consistent data exchange across distributed systems, thus minimizing errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you'll learn how to manage schemas with Schema Registry. Managing schemas ensures a consistent data exchange across distributed systems, thus minimizing errors.
```

## Background context

> The need for schema management has become increasingly prevalent to handle the evolving complexity of modern Event-Driven Architecture. A Schema Registry is a centralized service that stores and maintains the schemas for data exchanged between various components of a modern distributed system. Validating data being exchanged helps in maintaining data consistency and compatibility. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The need for schema management has become increasingly prevalent to handle the evolving complexity of modern Event-Driven Architecture. A Schema Registry is a centralized service that stores and maintains schemas for data exchanged between various components of a modern distributed system. Validating exchanged data maintains data consistency and compatibility. 
```

> While several Schema Registry implementations exist, you will use the [Apicurio Registry](https://www.apicur.io/registry/) in this tutorial. Apicurio Registry is a popular open-source Schema Registry implementation that supports multiple serialization formats and facilitates schema management for diverse data in distributed systems. You will be using the Apicurio Registry in combination with Avro, which is a language-neutral data serialization system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While several Schema Registry implementations exist, you will use the [Apicurio Registry](https://www.apicur.io/registry/) for this tutorial. Apicurio Registry is a popular open-source Schema Registry implementation that supports multiple serialization formats and facilitates schema management for diverse data in distributed systems. You will use Apicurio Registry combined with Avro, a language-neutral data serialization system.
```

## Prerequisites
Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) from the official website.

> 

Reviewer: @Arya-Gupta, instead of a broad header named `## Steps`, please make each step a heading. 

Example:
> ## Start Apicurio Registry

Author: Done!

> Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) from the official website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) from the official website.
```

> ## Steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Start Apicurio Registry

> 1. Start Apicurio Registry locally using below docker command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start the Apicurio Registry locally with the following docker command:
```

   
```
{`docker run --env CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=* -it -p 8080:8080 apicurio/apicurio-registry-mem:2.5.8.Final`}
```

### Upload Avro Schema

> 2. Once your local instance of Apicurio Registry is running, you can upload your Avro schema to it. Open new terminal window and create an Avro schema artifact using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your local instance of Apicurio Registry is running, upload your Avro schema. Open a new terminal window and create an Avro schema artifact with the following command:
```

http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts \
-X POST  \
-H "Content-Type: application/json; artifactType=AVRO" \
-H "X-Registry-ArtifactId: UserSignedUp" \
--data @- << EOF
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "UserSignedUp",
  "namespace": "com.company",
  "doc": "User sign-up information",
  "fields": [
    {
      "name": "userId",
      "type": "int"
    },
    {
      "name": "userEmail",
      "type": "string"
    }
  ]
}
EOF
```

<Remember>
Download your Avro schema by visiting the following URL: 
http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp.
</Remember>

> 3. An alternative to having the schema in a separate file as you learned in the [previous tutorial](/docs/tutorials/kafka/configure-kafka-avro) where you used the existing Avro schema in your AsyncAPI document, would be to store it in the registry. After uploading your Avro schema, remove the schema from your document, and replace it with the following:

Reviewer: Hey @Arya-Gupta, when mentioning the previous tutorial URL, you must fix the anchor text. Actually write the name of that tutorial.

Author: I've added the anchor text "Describe Kafka message payload using Avro Schema".

$ref: {url}

> Replace {url} with the url from the previous step.

Reviewer: These two lines seem confusing. Can you write the actual URL in this step? Each step should be easy to copy/paste main commands or URLs.

Author: @alequetzalli This has been done in the final code snippet, which is the code snippet right after this step

Reviewer: No, this part is confusing. Please improve this too.

Author: I've changed it to $ref: http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp

### Replace link using JSON pointer

> 3. An alternative to having the schema in a separate file as you learned in [Describe Kafka message payload using Avro Schema](/docs/tutorials/kafka/configure-kafka-avro) where you used the existing Avro schema in your AsyncAPI document, would be to store it in the registry. After uploading your Avro schema, remove the schema from your document, and a $ref that points to the url from the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One alternative is to keep your schema in a separate file, as you learned in the previous tutorial, [Describe Kafka message payload using Avro Schema](/docs/tutorials/kafka/configure-kafka-avro). After uploading your Avro schema, remove the schema from your AsyncAPI document and add a `$ref` pointing to the previous step's URL.
```

asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: User Signup API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: The API notifies you whenever a new user signs up in the application.
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro+json;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          $ref: http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp

> ```

Reviewer: I don't think your code snippet is a valid document because [Studio is marking errors](https://studio.asyncapi.com/?base64=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).

<img width="1631" alt="Screenshot 2024-01-29 at 7 00 00 PM" src="https://github.com/asyncapi/website/assets/19964402/1ead8f71-6df8-4bd0-af95-27ca42a0b4c1">

Author: The actual code snippet is the one from Joy's tutorial which works perfectly. 
![image](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/assets/84087089/bb58bb13-9974-4272-b0fb-82c0539d70ce)

Here, we've removed the schema since it has already been uploaded by whoever is following this tutorial, and replaced it with $ref that points to the uploaded schema. I think that Studio is marking errors because you don't have the schema uploaded.

      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro+json;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          $ref: http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp
```

## Summary

> In this tutorial you’ve gained insights about managing Avro schemas using a centralized schema registry that enables you to share schemas across multiple applications. It is important to note that this approach is valid for various other schema types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you managed Avro schemas using a centralized schema registry that enables you to share schemas across multiple applications. The good news is that this approach is valid for various other schema types!
```

## Next steps

> Now that you have learnt how to manage schemas, check out our tutorial for [bindings with Kafka](/docs/tutorials/kafka/bindings-with-kafka) to start sending messages between your services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have learned how to manage schemas, check out the [bindings with Kafka tutorial](/docs/tutorials/kafka/bindings-with-Kafka) to start sending messages between your services.
```

---
title: Managing schemas using Schema Registry
description: A tutorial teaching how to manage schemas using Schema Registry.
weight: 250
---

## Introduction

> In the [previous tutorial](/docs/tutorials/kafka/configure-kafka-avro), you've learned how to add Avro Schemas to your AsyncAPI document. Now, you will learn how to save your schema in a central Schema Registry and reuse it from there.

Reviewer 4: capitalizing "Schemas" is unusual - this is normally just written "Avro schemas" - I recommend changing that throughout

> In the [previous tutorial](/docs/tutorials/kafka/configure-kafka-avro), you've learned how to add Avro Schemas to your AsyncAPI document. Now, you will learn how to save your schema in a central Schema Registry and reuse it from there.

Reviewer 4: The first reference to Avro on a page should be "Apache Avro". Subsequent references to just "Avro" are fine.

It would be good to put something like this at the end of the tutorial

> Apache and Apache Avro are trademarks of The Apache Software Foundation.

> In the [previous tutorial](/docs/tutorials/kafka/configure-kafka-avro), you've learned how to add Avro Schemas to your AsyncAPI document. Now, you will learn how to save your schema in a central Schema Registry and reuse it from there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the [previous Kafka and Avro configuration tutorial](/docs/tutorials/kafka/configure-kafka-avro), you learned how to add Apache Avro schemas to your AsyncAPI document. Now, you will learn how to save your schema in a central Schema Registry and reuse it.
```

## Background context
The need for schema management has become increasingly prevalent to handle the evolving complexity of modern Event-Driven Architecture. A Schema Registry is a centralized service that stores and maintains schemas for data exchanged between various components of a modern distributed system. Validating exchanged data maintains data consistency and compatibility. 

While several Schema Registry implementations exist, you will use the [Apicurio Registry](https://www.apicur.io/registry/) for this tutorial. Apicurio Registry is a popular open-source Schema Registry implementation that supports multiple serialization formats and facilitates schema management for diverse data in distributed systems. You will use Apicurio Registry combined with Avro, a language-neutral data serialization system.

## Prerequisites
[Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) from the official website.

## AsyncAPI document with Avro Schema

> The previous tutorial taught you how to write an AsyncAPI document for Kafka messages using the Avro Schema. Here's an example of what an AsyncAPI document fully equipped with Avro Schema looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous tutorial taught you how to write an AsyncAPI document for Kafka messages using the Avro schema. Here's an example of what an AsyncAPI document fully equipped with Avro schema looks like:
```

info:
  title: User Signup API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: The API notifies you whenever a new user signs up in the application.
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          type: record
          name: UserSignedUp
          namespace: com.company
          doc: User sign-up information
          fields:
            - name: userId
              type: int
            - name: userEmail
              type: string
```

### Start Apicurio Registry
Start the Apicurio Registry locally with the following docker command:
   
```
docker run --env CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS='*' -it -p 8080:8080 apicurio/apicurio-registry-mem:2.5.8.Final
```

> ### Upload Avro Schema

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Upload Avro schema
```

Once your local instance of Apicurio Registry is running, upload your Avro schema. Open a new terminal window and create an Avro schema artifact with the following command:
   
```
curl \
http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts \
-X POST  \
-H "Content-Type: application/json; artifactType=AVRO" \
-H "X-Registry-ArtifactId: UserSignedUp" \
--data @- << EOF
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "UserSignedUp",
  "namespace": "com.company",
  "doc": "User sign-up information",
  "fields": [
    {
      "name": "userId",
      "type": "int"
    },
    {
      "name": "userEmail",
      "type": "string"
    }
  ]
}
EOF
```

<Remember>
Download your Avro schema by visiting the following URL: 
http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp.
</Remember>

### Update schema reference

> One alternative is to keep your schema in a separate file, as you learned in the previous tutorial, [Describe Kafka message payload using Avro Schema](/docs/tutorials/kafka/configure-kafka-avro). After uploading your Avro schema, remove the schema from your AsyncAPI document and add a `$ref` pointing to the previous step's URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One alternative is to keep your schema in a separate file, as you learned in the previous tutorial, [describe Kafka message payload using Avro schema](/docs/tutorials/kafka/configure-kafka-avro). After uploading your Avro schema, remove the schema from your AsyncAPI document and add a `$ref` pointing to the previous step's URL.
```

```
$ref: http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp
```

```
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: User Signup API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: The API notifies you whenever a new user signs up in the application.
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro+json;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          $ref: http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp
```

## Summary
In this tutorial, you managed Avro schemas using a centralized schema registry that enables you to share schemas across multiple applications. The good news is that this approach is valid for various other schema types!

## Next steps

> Now that you have learned how to manage schemas, check out the [bindings with Kafka tutorial](/docs/tutorials/kafka/bindings-with-Kafka) to start sending messages between your services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have learned how to manage schemas, check out the [bindings with Kafka tutorial](/docs/tutorials/kafka/bindings-with-kafka) to start sending messages between your services.
```

---
title: Managing schemas using Schema Registry

> description: The guide explains how you can manage schemas using Schema Registry.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
description: This guide explains how you can manage schemas using Schema Registry.
```

Author: Noted!

weight: 50
---

## Introduction
This tutorial will teach you how to manage schemas with Schema Registry. This will enable us to ensure a consistent exchange of data across distributed systems, thus minimizing any errors.

## Background context
To handle the evolving complexity of modern Event-Driven Architecture, the need for schema management has become increasingly prevalent. Data validation is a technique that helps in maintaining data consistency and compatibility. Schema Registry can be used to validate data being exchanged by producers and consumers. 

In this tutorial, we’ve used the Apicurio Registry, which is a popular Schema Registry implementation, in combination with Avro which is a language-neutral data serialization system.

## Prerequisites
Before you begin with this tutorial, it is already assumed that you already have:

> - Set up an instance of Apicurio Registry 

Reviewer 5: It's good we have this but to me it should be a pointer to Apicurio docs. Otherwise, we'll have to maintain this document if Apicurio changes.

Reviewer: cc @derberg for this question too ⬆️

- Created an AsyncAPI document 

> - Some knowledge of Avro serialization

Reviewer 5: Same as above. I think this one should point to Avro docs.

---
title: Managing schemas using Schema Registry
description: This guide explains how you can manage schemas using Schema Registry.
weight: 50
---

## Introduction
This tutorial will teach you how to manage schemas with Schema Registry. This will enable us to ensure a consistent data exchange across distributed systems, thus minimizing errors.

## Background context
The need for schema management has become increasingly prevalent to handle the evolving complexity of modern Event-Driven Architecture. A Schema Registry is a centralized service that stores and maintains the schemas for data exchanged between various components of a modern distributed system. Validating data being exchanged helps in maintaining data consistency and compatibility. 

> While several Schema Registry implementations exist, we will use the Apicurio Registry in this tutorial. Apicurio Registry is a popular open source Schema Registry implementation that supports multiple serialization formats and facilitates schema management for diverse data in distributed systems. We will be using the Apicurio Registry in combination with Avro, which is a language-neutral data serialization system.

Reviewer: open-source *

Author: updated

> While several Schema Registry implementations exist, we will use the Apicurio Registry in this tutorial. Apicurio Registry is a popular open source Schema Registry implementation that supports multiple serialization formats and facilitates schema management for diverse data in distributed systems. We will be using the Apicurio Registry in combination with Avro, which is a language-neutral data serialization system.

Reviewer: Update mentions of `we` for `you`.

Author: Updated!

## Installation guide
1. Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) from the official website.
2. Open the command prompt and pull up the Apicurio Registry Docker Image from Docker Hub using the following command:
    <CodeBlock language="bash">

>     {`docker pull apicurio/apicurio-registry`}

Reviewer 3: you do not need to have separate pull instruction

`docker run` works in a way that it pulls by default if you do not have given image on local

why is what I meant in offline discussion that  to start registry, is just one command

Author: @derberg I have deleted that step now

---
title: Managing schemas using Schema Registry
description: The guide explains how you can manage schemas using Schema Registry.
weight: 50
---

## Introduction
You will learn how to manage schemas with Schema Registry. Managing schemas will enable us to ensure a consistent data exchange across distributed systems, thus minimizing errors.

## Background context
The need for schema management has become increasingly prevalent to handle the evolving complexity of modern Event-Driven Architecture. A Schema Registry is a centralized service that stores and maintains the schemas for data exchanged between various components of a modern distributed system. Validating data being exchanged helps in maintaining data consistency and compatibility. 

> While several Schema Registry implementations exist, you will use the Apicurio Registry in this tutorial. Apicurio Registry is a popular open-source Schema Registry implementation that supports multiple serialization formats and facilitates schema management for diverse data in distributed systems. You will be using the Apicurio Registry in combination with Avro, which is a language-neutral data serialization system.

Reviewer 3: you could link `Apicurio Registry` to their official docs

Author: Added the link, thanks for pointing it out.

> ## Installation guide

Reviewer 3: it is rather prerequisites, please see other tutorials

Author: @derberg I don't understand what you mean, are you referring to the Installation guide or the part under Background context? I don't want to add "prerequisites" for the sake of consistency, because none of the previous tutorials have used such a heading.

Reviewer 3: I think you are referring to https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tutorials/generate-code
`Installation guide` is there because there are actual installation instructions. You have prerequisites.

feel free to consult with other docs contributors and @alequetzalli - I of course can be wrong

Reviewer: Hey @Arya-Gupta,

1. You are correct that our other tutorials **so far** have an `Installation Guide`, such as the one you and Lukasz are discussing (Generate code tutorial).
1. That said, Lukasz is also correct in pointing out that your tutorial is not detailing how to install Docker. You merely write a single sentence saying to install Docker, and you link to the Docker docs for instructions. Thus, Lukasz has a good point in suggesting you change this section to be a `Prerequisites`.

Please go ahead and make that tweak fix accordingly 😸

Author: Point noted! Thank you @alequetzalli @derberg

1. Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) from the official website.

## Steps

> 1. Run Apicurio Registry Docker Image in a Docker container by using the command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Start Apicurio Registry locally using below docker command:
```

Author: Updated

    <CodeBlock language="bash">
    {`docker run -it -p 8080:8080 apicurio/apicurio-registry-mem:2.5.7.Final`}
    </CodeBlock>

> 2. Once your Apicurio Registry is running, you can upload the schema in another terminal window. Create an Avro Schema Artifact using the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Once your local instance of Apicurio Registry is running, you can upload your Avro schema to it. Open new terminal window and create an Avro schema artifact using the following command:
```

Author: Updated

<CodeBlock>
curl \
http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts \
-X POST  \
-H "Content-Type: application/json; artifactType=AVRO" \
-H "X-Registry-ArtifactId: UserSignedUp" \
--data @- << EOF
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "UserSignedUp",
  "namespace": "com.company",
  "doc": "User sign-up information",
  "fields": [
    {
      "name": "userId",
      "type": "int"
    },
    {
      "name": "userEmail",
      "type": "string"
    }
  ]
}
EOF
</CodeBlock>

> 3. You can download the Avro schema by visiting the URL below and replacing {UserSignedUp} with the id of the schema used in the previous step.

Reviewer 3: this is not a "necessary step" in tutorial - rather nice to know/do, so place it inside note

> replacing {UserSignedUp} with the id of the schema used in the previous step

no need to write it like this, in the end people follow your tutorial, so their schema name will be exactly the same as in previous step - so just give them URL that they can click and see result

Author: You can download the Avro schema by visiting the URL below:
 http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp
 
 @derberg Is this what you were looking for? 
 Also, since I'm adding it as a note, should this not be a separate step in the tutorial?

Reviewer 3: yes, just a note under the step that is responsible for uploading schema

it should not be a step as it is just an info - nobody has to execute this step

steps are things that user must follow to go from 1 to 10

Reviewer 3: alternative - make it a step but somehow mark as optional

you can consult with other tech writers

Reviewer: My vote is to change this tutorial step to instead be a `Remember` block. (a note, as Lukasz also initially suggested)

@Arya-Gupta, please go ahead and change it into a `Remember` block and make sure to include the full URL, as Lukasz also noted. You should end up with something like the following:

```
<Remember>
Download your Avro schema by visiting the following URL: 
http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp.
</Remember>
```

Author: I've changed it to a `Remember` block!

http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/{UserSignedUp}

> 4. An alternative to having the schema in a separate file as in (Joy's tutorial), would be to store it in the registry. After uploading your Avro schema, remove the schema from your document, and replace it with the following:

Reviewer 3: you definitely should not write `Joy's tutorial` in official docs.

please look at 2 PRs from Joy's, where he has 2 tutorials: `main` and the `followup` that refers to the `main` one in a very nice way, showing previous document from `main` tutorial, and then pointing the part that is modified in `followup` tutorial. Please consult with him and update here

Author: I will discuss with Joy about this.

Reviewer 3: ok, looking forward

here you have example document with reference to apicurio uploaded schema - works well

```yaml
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: User Signup API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: The API notifies you whenever a new user signs up in the application.
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      payload:
        schemaFormat: 'application/vnd.apache.avro+json;version=1.9.0'
        schema:
          $ref: http://localhost:8080/apis/registry/v2/groups/my-group/artifacts/UserSignedUp
```

Reviewer: Yes @Arya-Gupta, you should not include Joy's name in documentation because this is not a personal blog post.  You should be referring to the tutorial by name clearly outlined in Joy's tutorial PR: https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/2329/files#diff-b418e5b2374213ec5e0acd798a9a87b653513a33c1b0f042e7e109aa15e30d38. 

EXAMPLE: 
> In the previous tutorial, **Describe Kafka message payload using Avro Schema,** you learned ABC. In this tutorial, you will use that Avro schema to..."

Author: I have fixed the link, and added the snippet after the last step in my tutorial.

$ref: {url}
Replace {url} with the url from the previous step.

> 

Reviewer: **Question**: Are the tutorial steps complete? It still doesn't read like a completed tutorial. 🤔

Author: I've added the code snippet that Lukasz had suggested. I think the steps are now complete!

## Summary

> 

Reviewer: Where is the summary?

Author: I was just discussing this with Lukasz. It has been added now!

## Next steps

> In the next tutorial, you are going to learn about Kafka bindings.

Reviewer: Let's write up a more detailed section here... what else can you share with your reader about what they will learn to do with kafka bindings and their AsyncAPI app? I would read Cynthia's tutorial to better understand what you can write in this section. 😸

Author: I've changed it to something more detailed.
